1.	Using COUNT, get the number of cities in the USA.
select count(district) from city where countrycode = "USA";

2.	Find out what the population and average life expectancy for people in Argentina (ARG) is.
select population, lifeexpectancy from country where name = "argentina";

3.	Using IS NOT NULL, ORDER BY, LIMIT, what country has the highest life expectancy?
Select Name, lifeexpectancy from country where lifeexpectancy is not null order by lifeexpectancy desc limit 5;

4.	Using JOIN … ON, what is the capital of Spain (ESP)?
select co.name, ci.name 
from country co 
join city ci 
on co.capital=ci.id 
where co.name = "Spain";

5.	Using JOIN … ON, list all the languages spoken in the 'Southeast Asia' region.
select co.region, cl.language 
from countrylanguage cl 
join country co 
on co.code=cl.countrycode 
where region = "southeast asia";

6.	Select 25 cities around the world that start with the letter 'F' in a single SQL query.
select name from city where name like "F%" limit 25;

7.	Using COUNT, get the number of cities in China.
select count(name) from city where countrycode = "CHN";

8.	Using IS NOT NULL, ORDER BY, & LIMIT, what country has the lowest population?
select name, population from country where population != 0 order by population asc limit 5;

9.	Using aggregation, return the number of countries in the database.
select count(distinct countrycode) as NumberOfCountries from city;

10.	What are the top ten largest countries?
select Name, SurfaceArea from country order by surfacearea desc limit 10;
select Name, Population from country order by population desc limit 10;

11.	List the top five largest cities in Japan.
select * from city where CountryCode = "JPN" order by population desc limit 5;

12.	List the names and country codes of every country which has Elisabeth II as its Head of State.
select name, code from country where headofstate like "%Elisabeth%";

13.	List the top ten countries which have the smallest population-to-area ratio.
select Name, (population/surfacearea) as PopRatio from country order by PopRatio desc limit 10;

14.	List every unique world language, according to the World database.
select distinct language from countrylanguage;

15.	What are the top 10 richest countries by GDP?
select * from country order by gnp desc limit 10\G;

16.	What are the top 10 largest countries by surface area?
select Name, surfacearea from country order by surfacearea desc limit 10;

17.	List every country where over 50% of its population can speak French.
Select countrycode, language, percentage from countrylanguage where (language = "french" and percentage > 50);

18.	Which country has the worst life expectancy?
select Name, Lifeexpectancy from country where lifeexpectancy is not null order by lifeexpectancy asc limit 1;

19.	What is the most common government form?
Select governmentform, count(*) from country group by governmentform order by count(*) desc limit 1;

20.	How many countries have gained independence since records began?
select count(indepyear) from country where indepyear is not null;
